dev-docs: add security overview (#1314)
edgelesssys/contrast: dev-docs/security-overview.md

> # Contrast security overview

Reviewer: Do we eventually move this into the actual docs, or what is the purpose of this document? In the dev-docs it's good for educating ourselves or people new to contrast, (which, I think, it fulfills quire well) though it's hard to find for anyone "just" using contrast.

Author: I think for now it's supposed to be an overview document for an external company.

🔗 For details, visit the [Contrast documentation](https://docs.edgeless.systems/contrast/basics/security-benefits).

## Contrast roles

- **Container image provider**: Creates container images that package the application and its dependencies, allowing it to access protected data securely.

- **Workload operator**: Deploys and manages workloads in a Kubernetes cluster. The operator typically has full administrative privileges over the deployment and can manage cluster resources such as nodes, volumes, and networking rules. The operator can also interact with Kubernetes APIs and the underlying cloud infrastructure.

- **Data owner**: Owns the protected data and is responsible for verifying the deployment using the coordinator attestation service. This verification ensures the identity, integrity, and confidentiality of workloads, the runtime environment, and access permissions. A data owner can, for example, be a user of a deployed SaaS application.

🔗 For details, visit the [Contrast documentation](https://docs.edgeless.systems/contrast/basics/security-benefits#personas-in-a-contrast-deployment).

## Key components

> - **Contrast Kubernetes runtime**: Contrast comes with a custom Kubernetes `RuntimeClass` that specifies the runtime handler used by `containerd` to manage container execution. A custom runtime handler is used to run containers inside Confidential Virtual Machines (CVMs). Contrast’s runtime is based on the [Kata Container runtime](https://katacontainers.io/) and the [Confidential Computing (CoCo)](https://confidentialcontainers.org/) project.

Author: changed.

- **Contrast coordinator**: An additional workload deployed to the cluster that itself runs within a CVM using the Contrast custom runtime. It serves as the central attestation service, ensuring that only attested workloads are admitted into the trusted service mesh.

- **Manifest**: A configuration (.json) within the Contrast coordinator that defines the trusted reference state of your cluster. It specifies cryptographic hashes for all application workloads The Contrast coordinator ensures that CVM attestations are always verified against this manifest before initialized as trusted.

> - **Contrast CLI**: A command-line tool used by workload operators to manage Contrast deployments. It provides tools to verify the integrity and authenticity of the coordinator and the entire deployment via remote attestation. It can also be used by data owners to verify a deployment. As it serves as a root of trust for the deployment, ensuring its integrity and authenticity is crucial for both the workload operator and data owner.

Author: dropped.

```mermaid

    flowchart LR
    A[Contrast CLI]-- "1 sets manifest" -->B[Contrast coordinator]
    A -- "2 verifies" --> B
    B -- "3 verifies" -->C[Worker node A]
    B -- "3 verifies" -->D[Worker node B]

```

🔗 For details, visit the [Contrast documentation](https://docs.edgeless.systems/contrast/components/overview).

## Runtime Policy

> A key element of a CVM in Contrast is its runtime policy, a fundamental component of Kata Containers. The runtime policy is attached to the CVM and enforced by the `kata-agent`, which runs in user mode within the CVM. It strictly regulates and verifies host-to-CVM communication, ensuring that:

Author: dropped.

Runtime policies are written in [Rego](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/policy-language/) and are automatically added to the pod definition as Base64-encoded annotations in the deployment YAML.

🔗 For details, visit the [Contrast documentation](https://docs.edgeless.systems/contrast/components/policies).

## Attestation

Attestation is a key mechanism of confidential computing that enables hardware-enforced, provider-independent verification of CVMs.

The integrity and authenticity of CVMs are verified through attestation. Each creation of a CVM generates a hardware-enforced attestation report, which is signed using a secret key. This secret key is derived from a vendor-introduced secret embedded in the chip during production. As a result, the attestation report serves as independent evidence of the CVM's state. It's signed by:

- **The Versioned Chip Endorsement Key (VCEK)**: A unique key derived from the chip's embedded secret and its security version number.

The signature is verified using AMD's official PKI.

The report includes the following information:

> - **Measurement**: A cryptographic digest of the CVM's initial memory pages at launch, including the kernel, initramfs, and kernel command line.

Author: Added:  "Unlike traditional QEMU boots that use Open Virtual Machine Firmware (OVMF) for UEFI initialization, Direct Linux Boot loads the kernel directly, skipping the need for firmware. " to  Integration Flow

- **Runtime Policy Hash**: A cryptographic digest of the enforced CVM's runtime policy.

- **Miscellaneous**: Details such as the chip identifier, platform information, and microcode versions.

### Manifest

The manifest, enforced by the Contrast coordinator, contains reference values used to verify all workloads. It can be seen as the trusted reference state of the deployment. The manifest includes:

- **Policies**: One Cryptographic hashes of the enforced runtime policy per pod.

> - **ReferenceValues**: The launch digests of the CVMs, based on AMD SEV-SNP. This doesn't include any application code but tracks the setup of the CVM. Two pods can have (and typically have) the same CVM setup.

Author: changed.

#### 2. Deploying the runtime handler and node installer (`DaemonSet`)

The workload operator deploys a custom runtime handler and node installer (`DaemonSet`) to Kubernetes.

- Deployment file: [runtime-k3s-qemu-snp.yml](https://github.com/edgelesssys/contrast/releases/download/v1.5.1/runtime-k3s-qemu-snp.yml)
- Purpose:
  - The `DaemonSet` configures the host environment on the node.
  - The runtime handler enables the creation of CVMs for running workload pods.

#### 3. Kubelet initializes the `DaemonSet` on worker nodes

1. Kubelet continuously listens for newly scheduled workloads.
2. Kubelet retrieves the `DaemonSet` pod configuration from the Kubernetes API server.
3. Kubelet instructs `containerd` to pull the required container images and start the `DaemonSet` pod.

#### 4. `DaemonSet` configures the node's host environment

Once scheduled, the `DaemonSet` node-installer installs and configures the necessary components to enable CVM execution:

1. Installs the Contrast-specific `containerd` shim (`containerd-shim-contrast-cc-v2`).
2. Installs `QEMU` as the hypervisor.

> 3. Deploys the (Initial Guest Virtual Machine) IGVM file. The file includes:

Author: changed.

- Ensures all traffic passes through the proxy by configuring `iptables` rules.
- Uses [**Envoy**](https://www.envoyproxy.io/) to manage mTLS encryption for both incoming (ingress) and outgoing (egress) traffic.
  - Employs [TPROXY](https://docs.kernel.org/networking/tproxy.html) for handling ingress traffic.
- Its integrity is similarly enforced through the security policy.
- For more details, see [the service mesh documentation](https://docs.edgeless.systems/contrast/components/service-mesh#ingress).

✅ This setup ensures that the CVM can be reliably attested and that all communications remain end-to-end encrypted.

### 6️⃣ Workload entry into the Contrast service mesh

#### 1. The Init container inside the CVM pod generates a cryptographic key pair (private and public).

- The private key remains securely inside the CVM and is never exposed externally.

#### 2. The Init container requests a service mesh certificate from the Contrast coordinator via rRPC, providing its public key.

#### 3. The Contrast coordinator (acting as a client) establishes an attested TLS (aTLS) connection with the Init container of the CVM pod (server) on the worker node:

> - The TLS protocol is [extended](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-fossati-tls-attestation-04.html) to include attestation verification of the server.

Reviewer: Since aTLS predates this ietf draft by alot, it doesn't adhere to it and all similarities can be broken in the future. I'd drop the reference for now.

Author: dropped.

# Contrast security overview

This document provides a security overview of Contrast. It describes the components involved and explains how Contrast integrates confidential containers into a Kubernetes cluster.

Since the architecture is largely consistent across platforms, this overview focuses primarily on **AMD SEV-SNP with bare-metal nodes**. It also highlights key differences for managed Kubernetes on AKS and bare-metal setups using Intel TDX.

## Architectural goals

> - **Isolation:** Workloads and processed data remain inaccessible to the infrastructure provider. This is achieved by executing pods within Confidential Virtual Machines (CVMs), leveraging runtime memory encryption, and enforcing end-to-end confidentiality and authenticity for all cluster communication.

Reviewer 2: We should briefly explain what pods are (groups of containers).

Author: done

- **Attestation:** Workload integrity is verified using hardware-based, provider-independent attestation mechanisms, ensuring that only verified and trusted workloads are executed.

- **Integration:** Contrast provides a custom Kubernetes runtime enabling workloads to run securely inside CVMs, along with Contrast-specific components responsible for workload attestation. Both elements can be integrated into existing Kubernetes clusters with minimal impact on current development workflows.

- **Full transparency:** All reference values defining the trusted state are fully transparent, available through open-source code and reproducible builds.

🔗 For details, visit the [Contrast documentation](https://docs.edgeless.systems/contrast/basics/security-benefits).

## Contrast roles

> - **Container image provider**: Creates container images that package the application and its dependencies, allowing it to access protected data securely.

Author: adjusted

- **Workload operator**: Deploys and manages workloads in a Kubernetes cluster. The operator typically has full administrative privileges over the deployment and can manage cluster resources such as nodes, volumes, and networking rules. The operator can also interact with Kubernetes APIs and the underlying cloud infrastructure.

- **Data owner**: Owns the protected data and is responsible for verifying the deployment using the coordinator attestation service. This verification ensures the identity, integrity, and confidentiality of workloads, the runtime environment, and access permissions. A data owner can, for example, be a user of a deployed SaaS application.

🔗 For details, visit the [Contrast documentation](https://docs.edgeless.systems/contrast/basics/security-benefits#personas-in-a-contrast-deployment).

> ## Key components

Author: added

> 

Author: added.

- **Contrast Kubernetes runtime**: Contrast comes with a custom Kubernetes `RuntimeClass` that specifies the runtime handler used by `containerd` to manage container execution. A custom runtime handler is used to run containers inside Confidential Virtual Machines (CVMs). Contrast’s runtime is based on the [Kata Container runtime](https://katacontainers.io/) and the [Confidential Containers (CoCo)](https://confidentialcontainers.org/) project.

> - **Contrast coordinator**: An additional workload deployed to the cluster that itself runs within a CVM using the Contrast custom runtime. It serves as the central attestation service, ensuring that only attested workloads are admitted into the trusted service mesh.

Author: adjusted

> - **Manifest**: A configuration (.json) within the Contrast coordinator that defines the trusted reference state of your cluster. It specifies cryptographic hashes for all application workloads The Contrast coordinator ensures that CVM attestations are always verified against this manifest before initialized as trusted.

Author: adjusted

- **Contrast CLI**: A command-line tool to verify the integrity and authenticity of the coordinator and the entire deployment via remote attestation. It can also be used by data owners to verify a deployment. As it serves as a root of trust for the deployment, ensuring its integrity and authenticity is crucial for both the workload operator and data owner. It's also used for automatically pre-processing deployment files, adjusting them for a secure Contrast integration.

```mermaid

    flowchart LR
    A[Contrast CLI]-- "1 sets manifest" -->B[Contrast coordinator]
    A -- "2 verifies" --> B
    B -- "3 verifies" -->C[Worker node A]
    B -- "3 verifies" -->D[Worker node B]

```

🔗 For details, visit the [Contrast documentation](https://docs.edgeless.systems/contrast/components/overview).

## Runtime Policy

A key element of a CVM in Contrast is its runtime policy, a fundamental component of Kata Containers. The runtime policy is attached to the CVM and enforced by the `kata-agent`, which runs within the CVM. It strictly regulates and verifies host-to-CVM communication, ensuring that:

> - ✅ Only approved workload images can be started inside the CVM.

Author: done

- ✅ Execution of additional unauthorized processes is prohibited.
- ✅ Unexpected environment variables can't be injected.

A CVM's runtime policy is automatically generated by the Contrast CLI based on the initial pod definition in the deployment YAML.

Runtime policies are written in [Rego](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/policy-language/) and are automatically added to the pod definition as Base64-encoded annotations in the deployment YAML.

🔗 For details, visit the [Contrast documentation](https://docs.edgeless.systems/contrast/components/policies).

## Attestation

Attestation is a key mechanism of confidential computing that enables hardware-enforced, provider-independent verification of CVMs.

> The integrity and authenticity of CVMs are verified through attestation. Each creation of a CVM generates a hardware-enforced attestation report, which is signed using a secret key. This secret key is derived from a vendor-introduced secret embedded in the chip during production. As a result, the attestation report serves as independent evidence of the CVM's state. It's signed by:

Reviewer 2: Replace "secret key" with "private key"?

Author: done

- **The Versioned Chip Endorsement Key (VCEK)**: A unique key derived from the chip's embedded secret and its security version number.

The signature is verified using AMD's official PKI.

The report includes the following information:

- **Measurement**: A cryptographic digest of the CVM's initial memory pages at launch, including the kernel, initramfs, and kernel command line.

- **Runtime Policy Hash**: A cryptographic digest of the enforced CVM's runtime policy.

- **Miscellaneous**: Details such as the chip identifier, platform information, and microcode versions.

### Manifest

> The manifest, enforced by the Contrast coordinator, contains reference values used to verify all workloads. It can be seen as the trusted reference state of the deployment. The manifest includes:

Reviewer 2: "workloads" feels a bit unspecific here to me.

Author: adjusted

> - **Policies**: One Cryptographic hashes of the enforced runtime policy per pod.

Author: adjusted

- **The Mesh CA certificate**: Using the Mesh CA certificate for workload verification ensures that any changes to the deployment are detectable. If the deployment is modified and the manifest is updated, the Mesh CA certificate becomes obsolete. As a result, verification fails when establishing authenticated TLS connections based on the obsolete Mesh CA certificate instead of the Root CA certificate.

Both the Root CA certificate and the Mesh CA certificate are provided to the workload operator or data owner when they first verify the deployment via the CLI against a trusted reference manifest.

🔗 For details, see the [Contrast documentation](https://docs.edgeless.systems/contrast/architecture/certificates).

### Configuration

Whether mTLS connections based on service-mesh certificates should be used for incoming and outgoing traffic of pods can be configured by using annotations in the deployment YAML.

🔗 For details, see the [Contrast documentation](https://docs.edgeless.systems/contrast/components/service-mesh#configuring-the-proxy).

## Contrast integration flow

> This section provides a high-level overview of how Confidential Virtual Machines (CVMs) are created and managed on worker nodes. It shows how pods are run within CVMS, starting from blank Kubernetes nodes. It outlines the following steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section provides a high-level overview of how Confidential Virtual Machines (CVMs) are created and managed on worker nodes. It shows how pods are run within CVMs, starting from blank Kubernetes nodes. It outlines the following steps:
```

1. **Preparing a Kubernetes cluster**
2. **Setting up worker node hosts**
3. **Setting up a CVM**
4. **Running workloads within the CVM**

> 5. **Contrast-specific containers on worker nodes**

Reviewer 2: Nitpick: Ideally, 5 and 6 would also start with a verb ;-)

4. Installs a read-only root filesystem image for pod-CVMs of this class.
5. Updates `containerd` configuration by adding a runtime plugin corresponding to the specified `handler` (`containerd-shim-contrast-cc-v2`) defined in the Kubernetes `RuntimeClass`.
6. Restarts `containerd` to apply the new runtime configuration.

✅ After these steps, the worker node is fully configured and ready to run Confidential Virtual Machines (CVMs), where workload pods will execute.

### 3️⃣ Setting up a CVM

#### 1. The kata runtime plugin initializes the CVM

- The installed runtime plugin (`containerd-shim-contrast-cc-v2`, referenced by the runtime handler) initializes the Confidential Virtual Machine (CVM) using `QEMU`.
- `QEMU` initializes the CVM’s virtualized environment.
- AMD SEV-SNP enforces memory encryption: Guest memory is encrypted using a per-VM encryption key, ensuring host isolation.
- `QEMU` calls AMD SEV-SNP `LAUNCH_MEASURE` which measures the kernel, the kernel command line, and `initramfs`. The measurement is stored in protected registers.

#### 2. QEMU initializes memory

- `QEMU` loads the kernel, kernel command line, and `initramfs` into the CVM’s initial memory.

> - Unlike traditional QEMU boots that use Open Virtual Machine Firmware (OVMF) for UEFI initialization, Direct Linux Boot loads the kernel directly, skipping the need for firmware.

Author: changed.

- All communication between the host and CVM is handled via the `kata-agent`.
- During pod initialization, the runtime shim invokes the `SetPolicy` function of the `kata-agent`, which performs the following actions:
  - Retrieves the full policy document, provided as a Base64-encoded annotation in the deployment YAML. This annotation is passed by `Kubelet` to `containerd`.
  - Computes a fresh SHA-256 hash of the received policy document.
  - Compares this computed hash against the hash stored in `HOSTDATA`.
  - If the hashes don't match, the CVM immediately aborts execution to prevent policy violations.
- The `kata-agent` securely exposes the `AgentService` RPC interface over `virtio-vsock`, ensuring all host-to-CVM communications conform to the verified policy.

✅ After completing these steps, the CVM is fully initialized and ready to execute workloads securely.

### 4️⃣ Running workloads within the CVM

The `kata-agent` inside the CVM is responsible for launching, verifying, and managing workloads within the guest environment.

1. The `nydus-snapshotter` plugin in `containerd` fetches container metadata and forwards it to the `kata-agent` inside the CVM.

> 2. `image-rs`, running alongside the `kata-agent`, pulls the container images and computes their hashes. The `kata-agent` then verifies these computed hashes against those specified in the security policy.

Author: adjusted

> 3. If the hashes match, the `kata-agent` starts the container workload inside the CVM.

Author: added

✅ After completing these steps, the workload runs securely within a confidential environment.

### 5️⃣ Contrast-specific containers on worker nodes

Each CVM pod includes two additional containers that start before the primary application container:

#### **Init container**

- Runs to completion before the main application container starts.
- Obtains a service mesh certificate, enabling the pod to join the internal service mesh managed by the Contrast coordinator.
- Its integrity is enforced and verified according to the security policy.

#### **Sidecar container**

- Runs continuously alongside the application container, functioning as a network proxy.

> - Encrypts all pod network traffic using mutual TLS (mTLS) based on certificates provided by the service mesh.

Author: adjusted

- Activated via annotations in the deployment YAML.
- Ensures all traffic passes through the proxy by configuring `iptables` rules.
- Uses [**Envoy**](https://www.envoyproxy.io/) to manage mTLS encryption for both incoming (ingress) and outgoing (egress) traffic.
  - Employs [TPROXY](https://docs.kernel.org/networking/tproxy.html) for handling ingress traffic.
- Its integrity is similarly enforced through the security policy.
- For more details, see [the service mesh documentation](https://docs.edgeless.systems/contrast/components/service-mesh#ingress).

✅ This setup ensures that the CVM can be reliably attested and that all communications remain end-to-end encrypted.

### 6️⃣ Workload entry into the Contrast service mesh

#### 1. The Init container inside the CVM pod generates a cryptographic key pair (private and public).

- The private key remains securely inside the CVM and is never exposed externally.

#### 2. The Init container requests a service mesh certificate from the Contrast coordinator via rRPC, providing its public key.

> #### 3. The Contrast coordinator (acting as a client) establishes an attested TLS (aTLS) connection with the Init container of the CVM pod (server) on the worker node:

Author: ok, but in TLS usually the server authenticates towards the client, right? I just wanted to highlight the roles of the parties in the TLS handshake, but maybe this is missleading here because generally the Coordinator acts as a server in the architecture.

> #### 3. The Contrast coordinator (acting as a client) establishes an attested TLS (aTLS) connection with the Init container of the CVM pod (server) on the worker node:

Reviewer 3: It is also acting as a server in the TLS handshake. Using client auth doesn't change that.

> #### 3. The Contrast coordinator (acting as a client) establishes an attested TLS (aTLS) connection with the Init container of the CVM pod (server) on the worker node:

Author: ok, so it is TLS with just client authentication (attested)? So the initializer of the pod inits the TLS connection?

> #### 3. The Contrast coordinator (acting as a client) establishes an attested TLS (aTLS) connection with the Init container of the CVM pod (server) on the worker node:

Reviewer 4: Yes, the initializer connects as a TLS client to the Coordinator, and both send a certificate. However, only the certificate of the initializer is actually verified by the coordinator, the coordinator's cert is ignored.

> #### 3. The Contrast coordinator (acting as a client) establishes an attested TLS (aTLS) connection with the Init container of the CVM pod (server) on the worker node:

Author: thanks.

- The TLS protocol is extended to include attestation verification of the server.
- The worker node must successfully pass attestation against the defined manifest before the TLS connection is fully established.
- Only after successful attestation does the coordinator issue a valid service mesh certificate.

#### 4. The coordinator securely delivers the service mesh certificate (signed by the Intermediate CA) to the Init container.

> - Additionally, it provides a secret seed used for key recovery purposes.

Reviewer 4: The "secret seed" is what the Coordinator itself works with, something like a master key for the entire cluster. The initializers only receive a "workload secret", which is stable for a given fixed pod definition and can be used to encrypt and persist.

#### 5. The Init container encrypts the service mesh private key for persistent storage:

- Derives a key encryption key from the provided secret seed.

> - Applies [LUKS encryption](https://access.redhat.com/solutions/100463) to securely store the encrypted key on an untrusted persistent volume.

Reviewer 4: The workload secret is used to set up transparently encrypted volumes for user data: https://docs.edgeless.systems/contrast/components/service-mesh#configuring-the-proxy. I don't think we have a KEK anywhere in the stack.

Author: ok, maybe the wording is wrong. But you write the pod's service-mesh private key to persistent volume as well, correct? And for encryption you use the key derived from the workload seed, correct?

#### 2. The CLI establishes an attested TLS (aTLS) connection to the Contrast coordinator

- By initiating the manifest upload through the `set` command, The CLI initiates an aTLS connection to the Contrast coordinator.
- The TLS protocol is extended to verify the coordinator's attestation report against the reference hashes embedded in the CLI.
- If attestation succeeds, the CLI establishes a trusted, authenticated aTLS session.

#### 4. The CLI uploads the manifest to the coordinator

- The generated manifest is uploaded to the coordinator using the CLI's `set` command.
- This manifest defines the reference state for trusted deployments within the cluster.

#### 5. The CLI verifies the cluster state

- After deployment, the CLI verifies the currently enforced manifest using the `verify` command.
- The Root CA certificate and the Mesh CA certificate for the service mesh are returned to confirm the trusted cluster configuration.

✅ **Verification ensures:**

- The actual deployed state matches the expected trusted state.
- Root CA and Mesh CA certificates of the service mesh are provided securely to workload operators and data owners.

## Attestation scope

> This section provides a concise overview of key components whose integrity is verified—either directly or indirectly—through remote attestation:

Reviewer 4: Maybe worth mentioning REPORTDATA (`sha256(nonce + public TLS key)`)?

Author: added

### Launch measurement

The CPU generates a hardware-enforced cryptographic hash of the files initially loaded into memory, known as the launch measurement. This measurement guarantees the integrity of the following components:

- **Kernel and kernel command line**
- **Minimal init filesystem (`initramfs`)**
- **Root filesystem:** Verified indirectly since the kernel includes `dm-verity` drivers, and the root filesystem’s reference hash is provided as part of the kernel command line.
- **`kata-agent`:** Located within the verified root filesystem.

### `HOSTDATA`

In addition, the CPU integrates the `HOSTDATA` field into the attestation report:

- `HOSTDATA` is a hardware-enforced field always included in attestation reports.
- It holds the cryptographic hash of the runtime policy enforced by the `kata-agent`.

## Secret recovery

When initially setting the manifest for the coordinator via the Contrast CLI, the coordinator returns a randomly generated recovery seed.

> The CLI encrypts this seed client-side using the private key of the seed-share owner.

Reviewer 4: The seed is encrypted server-side, using the seedshare owner public key with RSA OAEP.

Author: adjusted

> ### What's derived from the recovery seed?

Reviewer 4: The root CA key is also derived from the seed.

- **Manifest Signing Key**: Used to ensure integrity and authenticity of the manifest stored on untrusted persistent volumes.
- **Workload Secret Seeds**: Distributed securely to attested workloads, enabling them to derive encryption keys for securely storing sensitive data (for example secret keys) on untrusted persistent volumes.

### Why is the recovery seed important?

- ✅ It enables the secure restoration of sensitive data stored in persistent volumes.
- ✅ Since the seed provides access to encrypted secrets, it must remain strictly confidential.

## Example practical workflow

You can follow the [Confidential emoji voting tutorial](https://docs.edgeless.systems/contrast/examples/emojivoto) as an example of a practical deployment workflow.

## Supported Platforms

### Intel TDX

The architecture and considerations outlined in this document remain valid for Intel TDX deployments, with some terminology changes:

- Intel TDX uses the `MRCONFIGID` field, which is equivalent to AMD SEV-SNP’s `HOSTDATA`.

### Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)

> Contrast can also be deployed on managed Kubernetes services, such as AKS. In this scenario, Kubernetes nodes run as virtual machines instead of bare-metal servers, necessitating nested virtualization. Therefore, Confidential Virtual Machines (CVMs) are launched within these node VMs.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Contrast can also be deployed on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS). In this scenario, Kubernetes nodes run as virtual machines instead of bare-metal servers, necessitating nested virtualization. Therefore, Confidential Virtual Machines (CVMs) are launched within these node VMs.
```
There is no roadmap for nested virt support in other managed k8s.

AKS provides CoCo-enabled node pools as a preview feature. These node pools use Azure VM instances capable of nested virtualization (CVM-in-VM), with the CoCo stack pre-installed. Contrast can directly integrate into these CoCo-enabled AKS clusters. Key differences from bare-metal deployments include:

- On AKS, the node-installer (`DaemonSet`) installs `cloud-hypervisor` instead of `QEMU`.

> - AKS uses the `tardev` snapshotter to present container images as block devices directly to pod-VMs. In contrast to bare-metal setups, container images are therefore pulled by the host node, not by the pod VM itself.

Reviewer 4: Maybe worth noting that the layers are dm-verity protected and can't be compromised by the host.

Author: added
